(gentle operatic music)
She actually saw a light,
a white light enter her body.
And from the middle of the light
came the words, "You are healed."
A force just took a hold of me.
It lifted me up off my feet.
And as I was looking at her I mean
she just radiated light.
(sparkling)
And there seemed to be a person
or force standing in the doorway.
To prevent me from entering.
It was just a wonderful miracle.
What comes to mind
when you hear the word miracle?
Incredible coincidence?
The power of mind over matter?
Biblical stories like those of the burning bush,
or the parting of the Red Sea?
What do we mean by a miracle anyway?
A miracle is something that appears to be
unexplainable by the laws of nature,
and so is thought to be supernatural in origin,
or an act of God.
Webster said that.
Unexplainable by the laws of nature.
Just like hundreds of years ago,
no one would imagine a man walking on the moon,
if they saw it they would call it a miracle.
Maybe in 500 years the miracles that we see
every single day that we can't explain
will be explainable.
I don't like to use words like miracle,
or spontaneous remission,
because they lead you away from research.
You don't do research on miracles.
I mean if somebody goes to Lourde's
and their cancer disappears,
and we have evidence of certain cases,
you'd say, "Well he went to Lourde's that's a miracle."
But I'd rather take all the people who went to Lourde's,
sit 'em down and say,
"Fill out this form, and tell me
"what you did, why you think it happened,
"how did you get to Lourde's?
"You take a train or an airplane?"
You know, let's look at all these facts,
so that when the next person says,
"I have an incurable disease."
You say, "Look, here's the list,
"maybe you wanna go to Lourde's."
So when we hear contemporary stories
that seem to be unexplainable by the laws of nature,
we have to ask, "Are these miracles?"
To shed some light on these mysterious happenings,
and how they affect lives,
we'll look into some contemporary accounts
from people who believe that miracles do happen.
We'll hear in their own words,
their personal stories of miracles.
(gentle music)
Joan Wester Anderson, a magazine journalist,
and author, says she experienced a miracle firsthand,
and went on to investigate other stories
that were then published in her book,
Where Miracles Happen.
I had this image of miracles as happening
in huge shrines, or to very special people,
or perhaps things that happened
years and years and years ago.
But certainly not today, to ordinary people.
But one day I was out raking our leaves
in the back yard, stuffing bags full of them,
when all of a sudden I look down
and realized, in horror, that my wedding
and engagement rings were not on my finger.
When I looked at the back yard I realized
they had to be out here somewhere,
but there was absolutely no way that I was
ever going to find them.
And just then a friend of mine stepped
through the hedge which divided our two properties,
and I didn't know her real well
at that time, and she trudged across the leaves and said,
"What's wrong?"
She could tell and I held up my hand and said,
"I've lost my rings out here."
And she said, "Well let's pray about it."
She grabbed my hand, and pushed me down
in the leaves to a kneeling position, I'm thinking,
"What if someone's looking out the window
"and sees us doing this?"
But at the same time it seemed so nice.
And she began to talk to God about it,
she just said, "God we need a miracle,
"we have to find the rings, they're out here
"and you know where they are."
And then she kinda stopped,
and I thought, "Well now that was really nice of her."
But not for a minute did I think anything
was going to happen.
She got up, she started walking across the lawn
and she went around a huge pile
and then stopped, as if she was listening almost,
and then she took a couple more steps,
stopped in front of another pile,
reached down and pulled out both my rings,
now they were not connected.
The very fact that they were both there,
and she pulled them both up and said,
"Here they are."
Just as if she wasn't even surprised.
How did you do that?
And she said,
"I didn't do it, God did it.
"He told me where to look."
And from that time on, I began to change
my perspective of what a miracle was.
When you put them in a framework that people
can identify with, then you find that
a lot of people say,
"Oh, well I've had a miracle."
(wind blowing)
I was in the shower, kind of listening
to the pager and my tones went off.
It came across as a car fire.
Marker 37, car on fire.
I felt such a urgency,
like I've never experienced before.
I felt like I had hands on my back
just pushing me, and I needed to get out,
I needed to hurry up and get to the scene.
Mary Mueller, a firefighter,
was the first emergency worker to arrive
at the scene of a tragic automobile accident.
What happened next is described by
Joan Wester Anderson, who included Mary's story
in her book.
Now the ironic part here was
that there was no fire, ultimately,
but the first call that came in
summoned firefighters because it was
an incorrect call.
I got within couple hundred feet
of the scene itself, and I just couldn't imagine
what had happened here.
It seemed like a car bomb had gone off,
it was just complete devastation,
there was tires all over from one side of the road
to the other, out in the field.
There was the top of the vehicle had been
peeled open like a can opener.
At this point, I looked down into the ditch area,
and I saw a body down there.
She slid down the snow on her knees
to this woman and discovered that she was
bleeding to death from a massive wound.
Mary had nothing to stem the blood
except her firefighter's gloves.
But they were covered with soot,
and she felt, "I can't put that on this
"young woman's head, because I'll introduce
"so much infection."
And I knew that I needed something really quick.
And there was no medical help around,
and I had nothing.
And in a split second that I looked over to my left
at the car, and I looked over to the right
at the bystanders who were a good distance
away from me, I just reached way down
in my heart and I said,
"God, I really need some help here.
"I'm gonna lose this girl, I can't do this by myself."
And in that split second,
a reddish color medical bag showed up
approximately 12 inches off of my left knee.
There were no footprints around it
in the snow, there was no way that it could've appeared,
but there it was, and she said,
"I didn't even have time to wonder at it,
"I clicked it open, it had everything I needed,
"all the white gauze, pads, everything sterile."
And she began to take these out
and just use them one after another.
But when the EMS personnel did get there
the ambulance crew, paramedics, they came down
and at this point, I was out of bandages
in the bag itself, they were all gone.
And it was perfect timing,
they got there, they did their assessment
after I told 'em what I had had,
just to verify things,
and the paramedic kind of pulled my hand up
just a little bit to take a peek at the injury,
and he put my hand right back down
and he kinda whispered into my ear
so not to upset the victim, he says,
"Mary, you're holding this girl's life in your hands,
"don't let go."
And I'm like, "Oh boy, this is a heavy job."
(laughs)
So, I kept the pressure on the best I could,
and because the severity, they taped my hands
to her head to keep the pressure on,
and then they taped both of us to the back board.
Took them to the hospital
and the girl recovered eventually.
About an hour or two later, Mary left the hospital
and went back to the scene,
to recover that mysterious medical bag.
Mary found no evidence of the mysterious bag,
no discarded bandages, no sterile wrappers.
The bag had vanished.
The bag was gone,
and I said, "Well who cleaned this up?"
And they said, "Nobody cleaned it up,
"we thought you took it with you."
I said, "I couldn't have my hands were taped
"to this girl's head."
And um...
Made many inquiries,
had many questions, and they all
just came back to nobody knows where it came from
and we haven't seen it since
after that scene.
It's gone.
(calm music)
(wind howling)
Paul Robert Walker, author of
Every Day's A Miracle, also began his research
as a result of a personal story.
I was eager to do the book,
but I wasn't quite sure how to get into it,
how to approach it, I wanted to tell the stories
with an authenticity and an honesty,
and a humanity.
And I was thinking about it,
I realized, that I have been living with my own
miracle story for as long as I could remember.
And it was really very much a part of my life.
My story, it really began with my mother,
it's my mother's story.
My mother and father had been married for about
10 years in 1952, and in that time,
they had never been able to have children.
And they felt that they better take the steps
for adoption, because they really wanted a family.
One of the things that really appealed
to my mother about Catholicism
was the emphasis on Mary.
Because of course she was going through a time
in her life where she was struggling with the issue
of motherhood, she wanted so much to be a mother,
and here was this mother figure.
My mother prayed, asking that she be
granted a child of her own.
And saying too that
if that was not in God's will,
she would gladly adopt a child
and do everything she could to
be a good mother to the adopted child.
Well after she said the prayer,
my mother felt as if a real weight
had been lifted from her that she had placed
her problem in the hands of Mary,
and in turn in the hands of God.
Well, nine months to the date
from that prayer, I was born.
Now, I don't remember exactly when my mother told me
this story, but I was quite young,
and it has imbued my life with
sort of a sweet sense of mysticism.
A sense that there really is power out there,
that there really is a spiritual world.
And that in fact my very life
is a product of that power.
(gentle music)
There are times when miracle stories
seem to carry their own badge of proof.
When circumstantial evidence
shows that something incredible happened.
But other times, they don't.
Authors like Joan Wester Anderson
and Paul Robert Walker
hear many reports of miracles.
How do they know these stories aren't just
fabrications, or fantasies?
I look for the authenticity of the person.
What is this person's life been like
since this happened?
Have they changed?
Have the people around them changed
as a result of what they're doing?
Does this person have anything to gain
by fabricating this story?
You know it's kind of like
what would be the point of making up this story?
But then, when we get into the process
and I start looking at corrections,
I'm always looking to see,
are the suggestions they're making,
do they seem to be looking to correct the story
for accuracy, or to make it a better story?
Now again and again, I found,
that the people with whom I was working
were making corrections that in my mind
sometimes made it
somewhat less good of a story,
if I were just making up a story.
And then I go forward and try to find
corroborating testimony for it.
I don't usually do that until after I've
gone through this process of discernment
about the person.
From that point on, the story becomes
the property of the reader.
And the reader can decide
whether he or she wants to believe the story or not.
I think it's very important to chronicle
what is going on today.
And it isn't necessary to say,
"That was a miracle,
"this was just a nice coincidence,
"this was important, this isn't."
Stories of miracles sometimes appear
to defy the laws of nature.
But one man, Rodney Kephart,
found himself in a strange no-man's-land
of invisible forces 50 years ago.
Caught between two great powers.
Pitted in a historic drama
that would soon unfold for him
in a most unexpected way.
I arrived at Wake Island in May of '41
as a carpenter working construction
building an air base.
As you know in 1941 on December the 7th,
the Japanese struck Pearl Harbor.
(dramatic music)
First warning we had was the airport exploded
and then I rushed out onto the
back of the platform where I was working
at the carpenter shop, and I looked up into the eyes
of the Japanese that were strafing us with
.50 caliber machine guns.
Immediately following the attack,
Rodney rushed to the hospital to volunteer his help.
That night, we run 21 patients
through surgery between nine and one in the morning.
Everything from amputations to shrapnel removal,
and the next morning when I was relieved
I began to look for a place to take some rest,
and there was a room at the end of the corridor
that had two empty beds in it.
And at that point, I approached the room
and it seemed to be extremely light in the room,
and as I approached the door I just seemed
to lose my momentum to go forward,
and there seemed to be a personal force
standing in the doorway
to prevent me from entering,
because I had tried three times to enter,
and the same thing, I couldn't
just couldn't proceed.
(heavenly music)
So, I just felt I better go on down to my barracks
even though it was a half a mile walk
and try to get some rest down there.
Exhausted and confused,
Rodney walked back to his own barracks,
giving no further thought to the bizarre incident.
Until he put it together with what he saw
the next morning.
The Japanese just raided us again and
they dropped an incendiary bomb in the hospital,
it dropped in the room where I had chosen
to go to sleep, and that burned the hospital.
Rodney feels that his life was saved
by the unexplainable force which had prevented him
from stepping into that ill-fated room.
So that looks like one of the reasons
that I'm here today to be able to talk to you,
because my life was spared
by that miracle.
(gentle music)
Scholars discuss miracles
in the light of contemporary scientific reasoning.
From about the 15th or 16th Century on
there began to be a split between
how scientists looked at the world as this
complicated machine and how religious
moral philosophers were looking for meaning
and values that transcended the purely physical.
And I think that split is now slowly beginning
to heal, scientists are much more aware
of how many presumptions they do have
how much they don't understand,
they've learned a certain amount of humility.
And religious thinkers on the other hand
are trying to understand what they're feeling
and trying to say in terms of what we know
about the universe, and what really is out there
that scientists can tell us makes up reality.
Author Paul Robert Walker
comes to his own conclusions about miracles,
based upon his interpretation of scientific research.
The recent developments in particle physics
are fascinating in this regard,
because they discovered that
the smallest of subatomic particles,
the quark, behaves differently
depending upon the expectations of the observer.
Now what this means is that the universe
is responsive, the physical universe
responds to our own expectations.
Now how much more responsive
might be the non-physical universe?
In a sense, this is what faith is all about,
faith is a willingness to believe
that the universe will indeed respond
to our needs, to our thoughts, to our prayers.
You know my journey has taken me from
what you might call the more mechanistic approach
that we're taught in medical school, you know,
how to treat a disease, and that it's been
very much of a spiritual jourey
in the sense of realizing people want help living.
It isn't just getting over their disease.
And as I do this, I keep questioning myself.
And part of it is when somebody has a disease
disappear, and you say it's a miracle,
and why I even played with that word
in my first book, Love, Medicine & Miracles
to make people think about what is a miracle?
When someone comes to me with extensive cancer
and we have the path report, and I've operated
on him and I know he isn't cured,
and it's 12 years later he's never had treatment
for cancer, there's no sign of it in his body,
you see is that a miracle?
Or is it something explainable?
Well, I'd say even if we can explain it
it doesn't take it away from miraculous.
So in that regard, there's always room for miracles,
there's always gonna be things happening
that we don't understand and that we can't explain,
and it doesn't mean that the people who experience
those things are crazy or that they're
religious fanatics, but there are things gonna happen
that we don't understand, and if they strike
you as a miracle, then we need to take that seriously.
(gentle music)
One of Jeannie Hunter's facial nerves
was cut during surgery for a tumor in her ear.
As a result, she lost her sensation of taste,
and the hearing in one ear.
Worse yet, Jeannie lost her sense of equilibrium,
and was unable to walk or maintain her balance
for the better part of each day.
And I significantly changed my lifestyle
to be just on the couch or in bed
for most of the day and most of the evening.
That was not a very acceptable lifestyle
so I consulted with a second physician,
who offered me no more hope.
After four years of suffering,
losing her career and marriage
as a result of her inability to function normally,
Jeannie attended a healing service.
As I was driving to the church,
I heard very clearly the words,
"This can be the last time that you drive
"to the church sick."
And I was getting kind of excited
'cause I knew that was not my fault.
And then when I got to the church
and began to open the door,
I heard the words again,
"This could be the last time you walk through
"this door sick."
Now I sat and listened to her service,
and she talked about the Holy Spirit,
I did not know the power of God
or healing.
And I sat an hour and a half watching her pray
with other people.
The girls that I had friendships with said,
"We'll ask her to pray with you."
So she laid hands on me,
and then the girls who were there to pray with me
prayed and at the same time my prayer was this,
"Father I ask you to either heal me right now
"or let me die, because I have no life."
And then suddenly, everything became enveloped
in a white cloud, just like a fog rolling in,
and I thought they were in this fog with me.
Jeannie underwent what she describes
as an out of body experience,
in which she encountered a warm and healing light.
They had laid me down on the floor
of the church, I saw my legs
that looked like fluorescent light tubes,
now I know at this point that that was
the Holy Spirit moving in and removing illness
from me.
But at that time,
my thoughts were,
"If I'm on the floor,
"what do I look like?"
'Cause I had all the thought processes
that I have right now.
And I was bending over to see
what exactly did I look like,
suddenly from the right
came a pink white light that spilled out
into triangles.
And from the middle of the light,
came the words, "You are healed."
And I read the words and
for some few minutes they were there,
then the Lord sent them to me
and they touched me here.
And I heard him say,
"You are healed."
And then when I awakened,
on the floor, everyone was around me
that had started praying with me,
my hearing aide had come out of my ear,
it was lying on top of my skirt.
And I was trembling,
with just a tremendous amount of surging
that continued because the illness
had gone.
And all of the things that had been wrong
were restored.
I received my balance back,
my hearing was restored,
and the taste grew back.
(gentle music)
So I picked up my daughter
who was 13.
And I told her that the
taste had grown back and we went out to eat.
So while she had ordered a
french vanilla ice cream,
banana pineapple drink,
I'll never forget it.
Because the minute that I took a little sip of this
it was like putting 15 starburst in your mouth
and they just explode and I was going,
"Bananas, look bananas are back!"
And I'm going up, I just get up out of the table
run up and down the side of this restaurant,
where no one understands that I'm just now
tasting for the first time in four years,
and I'm trying to get them to drink
from my cup,
they weren't really interested in doing that.
So I just recommended that they go ahead,
order this drink you will not be sorry.
And we came back to start living
and learning how to live well
and having a new hope for being able to share this
that others would know
this is for you today.
The most important part of the whole healing
was knowing that we have a God
who loves us, he's tremendous.
(gentle music)
In Monterrey, Mexico,
a young woman had a tumor that she described
as being about this big in her lower abdomen,
And we prayed with her.
And she had an experience where
she actually saw a light, a white light
enter her body as we were praying.
And that white light went to the tumor
and began to treat the tumor,
to enfold it and she said she could literally
see the tumor disappearing until it was gone.
When people discuss coming into this light,
I think they are again coming back into this energy
the light is energy.
And so they are becoming a part of it again.
And it is loving, I mean,
I say that, I remember talking to her doctor
over dinner once, saying that,
"My definition of God was intelligent loving energy."
And he's like, "Well how do you know it's loving?
"He'll give an intelligence and he'll give energy to create
"but how do you know it's loving?"
I said, "Because if I incise somebody
"with a knife, they heal.
"And if God didn't love me,
"or my patient, they would bleed to death
"and die of an infection."
So we have this built in ability to heal.
But again, I'd get back to the state of that person,
their consciousness, their energy,
their love, their faith, all those
relate to healing.
(gentle music)
(dramatic music)
In exploring historical miracles,
I wanted to find stories where there was
some sort of contemporary corroboration
of the events involved.
The earliest story in the book
is a story of St. Francis of Asisi,
dates back to 1224 AD
at a time when Francis was on a retreat
in the Apennine Mountains in Italy
at a place called Laverne, a wildly desolate place
where Francis hoped to come to terms
with himself and with God.
Now as the story was told,
Francis was praying one night outside a cave
when a flaming angel came down from Heaven
holding an image of Christ on the cross.
The angel touched Francis with the cross,
and Francis developed the stigmata.
Which are the wounds
that Christ suffered on the cross.
Now the story of the flaming angel
of course sounds like it could be folkloric,
but there were two interesting instances
of contemporary corroboration.
One of Francis's followers who was with him
on the retreat reported that he saw
a ball of fire coming from the sky,
and enveloping Francis.
Also, the villagers who lived in a small village
at the base of the mountain
reported seeing the sky lit
as brightly as if it were the rising sun that night.
So both of those reports seem to indicate
that something very unusual and mystical had occurred.
Now, after they came down from Laverne,
many people saw Francis's stigmata,
and there's really no question that Francis
did indeed develop stigmata.
Leprosy in Bible times and in St. Francis's time
was just an awesomely horrible disease,
people would throw rocks at lepers
and urge them to get out,
it was unclean.
And people were just mystified by it
they won't have anything to do with it.
But St. Francis and his followers would go out
to the leper colonies and minister to these men
giving them food and other forms of comfort,
but there was one fellow there who was just
so bitter in spirit and so grouchy
that none of St. Francis's followers
wanted to even be near the fella,
and they'd finally just given up on him,
they thought he was unreachable.
So St. Francis said, "I'll care for him."
And he went in there,
and it's one of my favorite stories,
because he looked at the man, and he said,
"What can I do for you?"
And the man said,
"Nobody wants to come near me,
"they think that I rot.
"I would like you to bathe me."
And St. Francis did that,
and as he in that ultimate expression of compassion
began to use his own hands to wash the man,
the leprosy was cured.
(gentle music)
At the time of the Protestant Reformation,
many of those leaders
felt that miracles were over.
The age of miracles had happened already,
and that there was no reason for them
to continue, and that they were not continuing.
Many of them eventually changed their minds.
Or their successors did, but there are churches today
who still believe that there are no such things
as miracles.
Now having a lot of people being spiritual
claiming miracles, using intuition
has a tendency of
dispensing authority in all directions.
And it is a threat to the religious organizations,
to the church, to a clerical community,
to the rabbinical community.
And therefore not that encouraged.
(gentle guitar)
(clapping and chanting)
We'd been studying the Bible
where Jesus said,
"When you give a lunch or dinner
"don't invite your rich friends,
"your neighbors, or your relatives.
"Invite those people that can never
"invite you back, the poor,
"the crippled, the blind, the lame.
"And your Father in Heaven will reward you."
So I said, "Well I've never done that
"strictly and literally.
"We've fed a lot of people for a long time
"but we've never done it just that way
"so let's do it on Christmas."
And so, I said,
"I'm gonna do it on Christmas if anybody
"wants to come, come on."
The ladies made burritos, tamales,
bags of Christmas candy, cookies,
and oranges and stuff.
Christmas day, we meet in front of the
Anton of Our Lady Youth Center
all of these trucks, and cars, and people,
and they bring all of this food.
Some ladies brought some cake.
They had made cakes.
And I brought 25 bologna sandwiches,
that's two loaves of bread,
that makes exactly 25 sandwiches.
A lady had brought a ham, a big ham.
We load all our vans up,
our trucks and everything,
and then we crossed the border.
To my surprise, they were all working
in the garbage, and they had no idea
it was Christmas.
To them, every day was the same,
they didn't know, there was no Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, or holidays, every day was the same.
Christmas included.
And they tried to eek out a living
grubbing through the garbage.
I've been in war, I was in the Korean War
and I've seen things, you know,
but this shocked me, this was really shocking.
The condition of the people was terrible.
We found out later that every single
man woman and child on the dump had tuberculosis.
Father Thomas was accustomed
to estimating the amount of food needed
to feed a large crowd.
But the turnout that day was more than
three times what he had expected.
I had thought it would be 120 there,
there were a lot more.
We said, "We don't have enough food,
"but we'll share what we got."
They had broken out this big ham
and they put it on the tailgate of my truck.
And this lady starts to cut the ham,
she's cutting and cutting and cutting,
and giving out the pieces,
and I see everybody walking around with
a burrito, a tamale, a sandwich,
a piece of ham in their hand,
having a good time
just having a wonderful time.
After a while, this young man came to me
with a big slice of ham in his hand,
and he said, "Have some ham."
And I said, "No there's not enough."
He said, "Yeah there is."
And so I said, "There can't be."
He said, "Well look."
And I looked around there was people had
big slice of ham in their hands
about as big as a half inch of ham.
Well that didn't register.
And I'm looking around seeing all of these
wonderful things happening,
at the side of my pickup on the ground
this lady was giving out the little
Christmas bags of candy for the kids.
They'd get a bag and they'd run out
and they'd put them in a box in a paper sack,
and then they'd get back in line.
Well I figured for sure we're gonna
run out of candy, and I hollered down to Jean,
I said, "Jean we're gonna run out of candy,
"look what they're doing."
Well she couldn't control it,
she just shrugged her shoulders.
I was taking pictures of children,
boys with sacks of food,
and they would come and fill their sacks up,
take 'em home, empty their sacks,
and come back for another sack of food.
Well, it took
several hours for all this to penetrate my mind,
you know, as everybody began to share.
Father Thomas stopped keeping count
when the crowd surpassed 400 people
who came for the Christmas meal
originally planned to feed 120.
It didn't occur to us until after we had come back
of the miracle that had happened,
because we knew what he had taken across,
and we knew what we had given,
we saw with our own eyes
all the people that were there.
And we saw what was left over after
everybody had gone home.
Where we even had enough to go take down
to the orphanage, that was truly
a wonderful wonderful thing.
We stopped on the way back to El Paso
at an orphanage in Juarez and left the food there.
I found out a long time later
that a person from Juarez had food left over
and they had stopped at another orphanage
to leave the food that was left over.
And this really got our attention,
and we said, "Well if God multiplied that food,
"that's a sign that we have to go back
"and help those people."
And so that was the beginning
of a ministry at the garbage dump
that's gone on even to this day.
(gentle music)
Yeah over there, that's a cut away of
what they're all living on top of,
that's what the garbage,
the old garbage, that's been there for years
and they just built on top of the garbage.
They haven't got any running water.
But they got barrels here.
If you can see all of these homes right here
and off in the distance, way in the distance,
you see the United States of America.
30 minutes from right here
to the wealthiest nation in the world,
they have all of this.
Frank Alarcon was so touched
by what he saw happen that day,
he took it as a sign that he should stay
in Juarez and help the poor people in that town.
That evening when I went home,
and I went in my room and I closed the door
and on my knees I begged God for a job,
with tears in my eyes, I was so in love
that, I was so in love.
He left behind a comfortable retirement
in the US, and organized a daycare,
a doctor's and dentist office,
and other services.
That's your pharmacy over there.
We charge 10 pesos a visit,
and we give them the medicines
if we have them, if we don't,
then the doctor will make out a prescription for them
to buy, if they don't have the money, fine,
if they don't then we'll buy it for them.
And the same way with the dentist,
if they have the money, if they don't
they still get treatment.
See the white building
with all those barrels on top?
I have a little room in back of there.
He now lives in a one room dwelling
with a single light bulb, and a mattress
on a dirt floor.
Super room.
This is where we celebrated Christmas 1972,
right here.
And it was just a beautiful wonderful day.
I couldn't, I thank God for that Christmas,
it changed my life.
I can't take any credit for anything,
I dare not take credit for anything,
because I'm not capable of those things.
These are just wonders that God has done.
When our film crew went out to investigate
these stories at the Lord's Ranch,
they were greeted by something quite unexpected.
We just arrived here, and I told our cameraman
that we needed to shoot a dark sky
because when we get home,
I'm planning to superimpose a rainbow for an effect,
and not 30 seconds later,
we turned and saw this most beautiful double rainbow
I've ever seen in my life.
This is a sign that the Lord has given you
to show you what he does here.
He performs miracles here,
and this is His sign to you.
That rainbow.
(mumbles)
(gentle music)
(calm organ)
(suspenseful music)
Richard Musielak's son Paul
was caught in a mugging situation,
and he was beaten very badly,
Richard got the call that night that
Paul was in the hospital with terrible damage
to his head and face.
I could not believe what I saw.
His eyes were bleeding, they were
so swollen shut and so swollen
out of proportion that he looked like some
strange creature.
Literally out to here.
And, blood all over his face,
he just looked like a piece of raw meat that
had just been slaughtered.
He was still conscious,
of course they couldn't give 'em anything
for the pain because it was trauma to the head.
And, I...
Almost immediately became extremely angry
who would do this to my son?
And he related the story then as to
what happened, he said,
"Dad, I simply got out of the car
"and I turned around and wham.
"Someone hit me, and apparently hit me more
"than a couple of times."
Richard was filled with a white hot anger
to get these guys,
and he went looking for them all day Saturday
and couldn't find them.
Talked to people on the street,
offered a reward, anything,
he said, "I was going to break their kneecaps first,
"before I gave them to the police."
I think that would be a natural reaction for anyone.
But the following day,
he went to church with the baseball bat
in his car.
Wouldn't you know the homily that day was on forgiveness.
And, I...
I still get a little choked up about it,
but in my pew...
I uh...
Made a conscious decision
to forgive those people,
whoever they were, and uh...
Not to pursue
the vindictive type of behavior that I was.
And while I was sitting there,
I recall that I had to forgive those people too
because I couldn't pray for my son's healing
if I held something against someone else.
So, I forgave, and...
I prayed for my son's healing.
And, I asked the Lord to take it from my memory,
I mean the bad feelings.
And he did.
Anyway I went to...
I went to the hospital that morning
and upon exiting the elevator,
one of the nurses spotted me
and said, "Mr. Musielak, it's your son."
We can't explain it,
we don't know how it happened.
And I didn't remember exactly how I took that,
but I kinda trotted the rest of the way
to the room.
There I saw Paul, the swelling had gone down
and he had opened his eyes.
By this time of course a lot of the blood
was already cleaned up off of his face and such,
but I mean in and of itself
it was like a miracle that he was actually
able to open his eyes and the swelling had gone down.
So then on Monday, we went back to the hospital
to take Paul home.
And, were amazed really.
In seeing Paul with only bloodshot eyes.
Not a contusion, not any evidence of
any scratch or harm or beating at all.
The swelling was completely gone down,
he was in fine spirits.
Later I found the report, the doctor's report
about the exit x-ray of Paul.
And when on Saturday there was a fractured skull,
evidence of a fractured skull by x-ray.
On Monday there was no evidence
of any fracture at all.
Most people focus on Paul,
and the marvelous restoration of Paul's face.
Which of course is a miracle.
But I would have a tendency to think that
the other miracle was the healing of Richard's heart.
On faith, he finally was able to
just throw away his baseball bat and his plans
for revenge, and...
After that, his miracle happened.
(gentle piano)
A miracle is something that appears
to be unexplainable by the laws of nature,
and so it thought to be supernatural in origin.
Or, an act of God.
The stories we just heard speak of
profound and life-changing events,
and phenomenal experiences
that appear to be unexplainable by the laws of nature.
For the people who live them,
they are quite simply
their own personal stories of miracles.
The thing that we have to understand is that
most of us have been brought up to think
in terms of reason,
rationality, to look at things philosophically
rather than theologically,
and while both philosophy and theology
will deal with some of the same questions
and the same issues, their starting point
is entirely different.
Philosophy begins with reason,
theology begins with faith.
Faith doesn't require proof
or it wouldn't be faith.
So often in miracles
we see that um...
Sometimes the power of prayer,
it's brought on by someone else,
and I think we forget that the power of prayer
is beautiful in that a lot of us can get together
and pray for one person.
For those who can live their life
putting out unconditional love to all those
around them, that kind of agape love
and certainly living a life of loving God.
I think those people probably experience miracles,
little amazing coincidences all the time,
and I think the closer we get to that ideal,
the more likely we are to experience miracles.
People are looking for answers,
I think in the last couple decades
we thought science really was gonna be able to
provide us with answers, and we're gonna find cures
for all these diseases that we're really gonna
understand how the physical world operates,
and now we're not so sure if science can provide
those answers, so we're looking for other places of
how we might try better to understand
what the world is like,
and how cures can be affected.
And religion is providing a certain amount
of answers and people are finding miracles
or things that strike them as miracles
as something that's very interesting
that might indicate that there is more to reality out there
than scientists can tell us.
Miracles happen every day.
And it doesn't have to be at a terrific accident site.
It could be something as small as
giving somebody a smile.
You don't know if that person's gonna be down or not,
and that smile could be what changes that person's
course in life, that yeah somebody does care for me.
And that's how these miracles happen
is by caring for each other,
and that's why we're here.
The greatest deterrent to a miracle
is intellect and logic.
But if you get in touch with the intuitive,
creative energy forces
that exist in this universe,
that's when you can have a miracle.
(dramatic music)